>> Lisa Garr: Hi, I'm Lisa Garr,
host of Gaiam Inspirations.
Are you in a transition in
your life that is causing you
to reflect on maybe what's
working or what's not working
in your life, or did you have
an agenda that didn't work out
or that didn't quite
go your way?
Well, let's talk about
this today with someone
who brings the wisdom of her
years of experiencing successes
and failures and the wisdom
of her Greek mother,
Agapi Stassinopoulos.
She is the author
of three books.
Her latest is called
"Unbinding the Heart:
A Dose of Greek Wisdom,
Generosity,
and Unconditional Love."
I can't wait for
this conversation.
>> Agapi Stassinopoulos:
Thank you, Lisa.
It's so good to see you.
>> Lisa: It's great
to have you here, too,
and just to have just an hour
of just grab a cup of coffee
and have a conversation.
>> Stassinopoulos:
Yes, the Greek way.
>> Lisa: The Greek way.
>> Stassinopoulos:
Have something to eat.
>> Lisa: Little feta,
little olive oil.
>> Stassinopoulos: Yes.
The hour extends
to the afternoon.
>> Lisa: That's right.
So tell me a little bit
about your upbringing.
Where did you grow up
and what was it like?
>> Stassinopoulos: Well, I
was raised in Athens, Greece,
and it was a beautiful way
to be raised in the country,
that is full of love and a
lot of exuberance, affection.
I was raised with my sister,
Arianna, and my father
and my mother were separated
when we were very young,
I mean, in my teenager years.
And the most important thing
around my life is the safety.
There was this feeling
as I was growing
up of really feeling
loved and cherished.
Now, my biggest unhappiness
is that my parents separated.
>> Lisa: Yeah, yeah.
>> Stassinopoulos: And
it took years to heal.
>> Lisa: Well, especially as a
teenager or, and as you're going
through that transition in your
life where you really do need
to see what relationship
really is all about.
>> Stassinopoulos: And
losing my father, you know,
who I was very attached to, and
also I had this kind of bond
with my father that I was
responsible for his healing.
I felt he was a man
with a lot of pain,
because he survived
the concentration camps
in the Second World War.
>> Lisa: Wow.
>> Stassinopoulos:
For a year and a half,
and I write about
all this in my book.
And my mother loved him so much,
but he was unfaithful to her,
and that caused her heartache.
And as a child, you feel
that and you are so helpless
to do anteing about that, and
so that internalizes and a lot
of beliefs start to
set up in your brain
and in your consciousness.
>> Lisa: Like lack of trust.
>> Stassinopoulos: Lack of
trust, not really trusting
in relationships, also feeling
that what's wrong with me
that I can't heal that,
and that's irrational.
But the part of us that
loves and is loved wants --
and it doesn't work
this way on this Earth.
Nobody gives us a manual
>> Lisa: To say,
this is how it goes.
Well, your mother did.
She gave you quite a manual,
and you share the wisdom
that she brought you
throughout your entire life.
We have a picture here of your
mother, and she just looks
so joyous and so happy.
And what were some of the things
that you absolutely
loved about her?
>> Stassinopoulos: Her
fearlessness and her vision.
She always had this amazing
vision for me and Arianna
about really fulfilling
our dreams
of whatever these dreams
you have as a child,
and she made them happen.
And it was her tenacity,
her resilience.
Despite of all the challenges
and all the adversities
that will come her way,
she will find a solution.
I have a chapter in
the book that I love.
It's called "There is
Always a Solution."
And she would demonstrate it
in the midst of adversity.
And instead of collapsing,
instead of giving up,
she will rise to the occasion.
And my first book I
dedicated to her and I said,
with a great quote from
Emily Dickinson that says,
"You never know how high you
are till you are asked to rise,
and if we are true to plan.
Our statures touch the skies."
So we never know, and I
said to my mother, Elli ,
who never put ceilings
on my sky.
She never said, "Oh,
you can't do this,
darling, you can't do this."
And one of the other greatest
gifts she gave me and Arianna is
that she never compared
us to each other.
Arianna was an amazingly
brilliant academic girl
who loved her books.
She loved math.
Who loves math?
>> Lisa: Who loves math?
>> Stassinopoulos: And algebra.
That's why she started
economics.
And I love the theater.
I love to dance, I love
to make people happy.
I was a joyful child who just
wanted that, and she never said,
"Be like your sister."
>> Lisa: So your mother raised
two very successful women,
your sister, Arianna
Huffington and you are an author
and a speaker and you
started off as an actress.
What was it that she instilled
in you that enabled you both
to be so successful,
in different ways?
>> Stassinopoulos: Yes.
>> Lisa: And not
competitive with each other?
>> Stassinopoulos: Exactly,
not compare us ever.
I mean, I have story after
story, Lisa, of what she did,
and one of my favorite stories
is when we were in middle school
and she went to get a
report for our grades,
and she would always come
back with flowers, anemones,
and she would say,
"Congratulations,
congratulations, you passed."
And I say, "Mommy,
what did I get?"
And in math and things
like that I would get an F,
and Arianna would get an
A. And she would say, "Oh,
doesn't matter about
the marks, you passed."
And whenever I didn't understand
about the math or the algebra --
I had difficulty with
the more academic part --
she would always say to me,
"But we didn't bring you here
to do math or algebra, you
came here to do your gift."
And she knew that my
gift was expression,
and that's why I ended
up going into acting,
and that's why she put
me in dance classes.
>> Lisa: That's why she called
you Agapi, which means--
>> Stassinopoulos: Unconditional
love in Greek, a agapi, agapi.
It's a name she gave me also
because my grandmother was
Russian, Uba, and translated
in Greek, it was agapi,
and it's the Greek word
for love, unconditional love.
It's called actually
in the Oxford Dictionary is
the love that God has for man.
The Greeks had four kinds of
love, one of them is philia,
friendship, charity, which is
the philanthropic love, eros,
which is the Aphrodite
love, which we'll talk
about that later,
and agape, agapi.
>> Lisa: Really?
>> Stassinopoulos: Yeah.
>> Lisa: I didn't know that
there were four kinds of love.
Well, you started off as you
mentioned, as an actress,
and we have this great clip
of you talking about a story
of how you transitioned,
and you found your voice.
Let's take a look at this.
>> Stassinopoulos: "She
turns to me and she says,
'I don't know what to do with
you because you have too much
of a personality and I
can't treat you as an extra,
and to be in the chorus
because you stick out,
and I can't give
you the big parts
because you're not a start.
You don't have the name
of Sigourney Weaver
and Susan Sarandon --
I need a big name --
so it breaks my heart,
but I can't hire you.'
Well, I go home, I am like
Persephone in the underworld,
and I have hit bottom,
rock bottom.
I think, nothing will happen
to me, I have no life,
I will never get a part, what
am I going to do with my life?
And I get on the bus -- I cry
first of all to my mother,
who says to me, this
is what my mother said.
My mother said, 'Darling,
something better will come,
because my mother knew
better, and she was right.
At the time, I didn't
believe her.
I get on the bus, and I'm
sitting on the bus and I got in
and I realized everybody looks
much more depressed than I do
and everybody -- you know
how it is in the bus.
Everybody's recycling their
worries and their bills
and how they're going
to pay their bills
and what are they going to do.
And it's like, who
wants to talk to anybody
and if you touch them a little,
say I'm sorry, you know, like --
and they look at you
and you feel worse
when you get off the bus,
because now you have
the collected despair,
not just yours.
And if you're too
sensitive like I am,
you pick it up like a sponge.
So I'm sitting there, and
I see the woman next to me,
and of course, I'm like
longing to talk to somebody,
because I'm Greek and
you talk to people.
And I turn to her,
and I said, 'You know,
I just didn't get the part.
You know, how are you?'
And she says to me, says,
'Well, I love theater.'
And I said, 'You do?'
'Yes, I used to be an actress
and now I am a single mom
and I'm a nurse and I
have to support my son
so I don't act anymore.'
And I said, 'Oh, I understand.
You know, I just
did Joan of Arc.'
I said, 'Would you like
me to do it for you?'
And I turned to her, and I go,
'You promised me my
life but you lied.
You think that life is
nothing but being stone dead.
I can live on bread and water,
when have I asked for more?
But to shut me from
the light of the day,
to throw me in the
dungeon, chain my feet
so I can no longer see the sun
and my wonderful
soldiers passing by --
that is worse than the
furnace in the Bible
that was hit at 7 times.
You think you can frighten me
by telling me that I'm alone.
God is alone and France is alone
and what is my loneliness
before the loneliness
of my country and my God?
I see now that God's
loneliness is his strength.
My loneliness will
be my strength, too.
I will take comfort in His love,
in His console, in
his friendship.
He will not fail me.
But to think you can
take that away from me.
I will go out now to
the common people.
Let the love in their
eyes comfort me
for the hatred in yours.
You will be glad
to see me burned,
but if I do through the
fire, I will go through it
to their hearts forever
and ever.
So light your fire,
and God be with me.'
[ Applause ]
And what do you think
this woman says to me?
'My dear girl, you're
so talented.'
And I said, 'I know, but
I can't get the part.'
And she hugged me
and she's crying.
And I get off the bus,
and I am 10 feet tall.
And I get off the bus and
I get it, man, I get it.
Years and years of waiting for
one casting director to say,
'You get the part,'
I got the part.
Thank you, I got me."
>> Lisa: Just sends chills down
my legs when you say "I got me."
>> Stassinopoulos: I got me.
>> Lisa: I got me.
That is so great.
But being a performer, I mean,
you never stop being a
performer is what I know
of performers, is you don't--
>> Stassinopoulos: Yes,
you never stop-- and
here's the thing.
The hard part of this was to
go to the best drama school
in the world, The Royal
Academy of Dramatic Arts,
the likes of Maggie
Smith and Helen Mirren
and Anthony Hopkins and--
>> Lisa: In London.
>> Stassinopoulos: In
London, and Alan Richman.
And then to be validated
as a really very talented
actress there, and then to go
to Hollywood and not fit
in, it was like a heartache.
All I can tell you is that
it was a tremendous heartache
of not being able to
find my expression.
And it went on for years.
>> Lisa: And I'm sure there are
many, many in that position.
>> Stassinopoulos: Exactly,
so now when I look back
and why I wrote all that
in this book is to tell
when you have this
crisis moment,
is because you're not
supposed to fit in.
You're supposed to dive
in and excavate inside
and say, "What is my calling?"
And I feel so passionate
about helping people
find their calling.
>> Lisa: Create your
own voice within it.
>> Stassinopoulos: Yes,
and there are keys,
and there are ways, and
why now I am out there
in the world speaking
and inspiring people
to say, hey, I got mine.
I got me, and not the career
and not the projects, I got me.
And then you go create.
>> Lisa: And you have
found your moment,
you have found your calling.
And this is something
that your mother said
to you, which I wrote down.
"Don't miss the moment."
That was one of her
favorite things.
>> Stassinopoulos: Well, that's
what happened in the bus.
I didn't miss the moment.
You see, the transition
that happened for me was
that I was you know,
recycling my depression
about not getting the part and
I was in it, and then you go
like Persephone, the
goddess of the underworld,
you're in the underworld
and you are feeling bad.
And you feel there's no hope,
there's no rope,
there is no light.
>> Lisa: Over and over.
>> Stassinopoulos: But
if you just say, okay,
and we'll talk about that later.
When does it stay open?
Don't close down
because you don't know.
Because spirit, the
spirit in us puts the seed
of creativity in all of us.
So find that creative spark.
>> Lisa: But how do
you know when to go
for that creative spark and
to stop with chasing the dream
that you thought was
the perfect dream?
>> Stassinopoulos: That's right.
That's a great question.
How do you know?
You just -- and it took me
years, Lisa, to find that,
because not just with a career.
Then I went into producing
and things wouldn't work out.
One after the other, it was like
the universe was telling me,
okay, sweetheart, try that
but that's not your thing.
And I'm going, what is my thing?
And then I started
developing the One Woman Show.
When I realized the production
and the big dreams were
not happening, I said,
I'm just going to
act what I love
which is the stories
of the Goddesses.
>> Lisa: Oh, brilliant.
>> Stassinopoulos: So you take
that and you don't make it
about the world, you
make it about expressing.
I don't know, maybe
it is starting
to tell young kids
fairy stories.
Find something -- maybe it's
cooking, maybe it's gardening.
Maybe it's making --
>> Lisa: It's all of that.
>> Stassinopoulos:
It's all of that.
And as you start,
you become alive.
You see, I think part
of the mistake we do
in this world is we think
it's these achievements
and these bigger things, and
we lose track that the soul
and the heart wants the real
thing, the real expression.
>> Lisa: Well, look, you are
such an amazing storyteller
and you have your
degree in psychology.
>> Stassinopoulos:
Yes, that's where a lot
of healing happened for me.
I went to the University
of Santa Monica
and did tremendous
amount of inner work,
because to get there
you got to put the work.
>> Lisa: Yeah, you have
to do your own work.
>> Stassinopoulos: It's really
like developing your
muscles in the gym.
>> Lisa: Yeah.
This next clip we have is all
about letting your agenda go.
Take a look at this.
It's great.
>> Stassinopoulos: Just
letting your agenda go.
"And I ask you all to just call
yourself forward at this moment,
at this incredible conference
to serve one another,
to let go of your agendas,
to let go of what you think
our projects are in our lives.
Most of them in my
life didn't happen.
Most of the men I thought I'd
marry, I never married them.
But what mattered is when
I let go of my agendas,
the spirit took over and today,
I asked you to bring forward
your spark to ignite each other
in the moment, like
the woman in the bus.
Like that moment, let
your moment appear
and that is your
portable paradise.
That we have with
us every moment.
Claim it, have it, it's yours
for the taking, participating
and enriching your lives."
>> Lisa: What is the message
that you wanted to leave people
with in the book
"Unbinding the Heart"?
>> Stassinopoulos: That
no matter what we go
through in our lives, as long as
we keep the eye on the thought
that really what matters is
to get back to ourselves,
that everything is recycling us
back to get back to the heart,
to get back to the soul,
to get back to the
authenticity of who we are.
>> Lisa: So what's
the first step?
I mean, you're lost, you're
out there, you have a dream
and it didn't get realized.
>> Stassinopoulos: Okay, four
magic words: Can you help me?
>> Lisa: Ask that?
>> Stassinopoulos: Yes.
People say "How are you,"
and you say "Great," say,
"You know, I'm feeling lost.
I really don't know if
I'm doing the right thing,
if I'm going the right
way, if the man I'm going
to marry is the right man,
if the career I have isn't
giving me satisfaction.
I feel like I'm on a nomadic.
I feel like" -- a lot
of people say to me,
"I'm missing in action.
I'm doing my life
but I'm not in it.
That there's a whole part
of me that's not there."
So how do you do that?
First of all, it's a
very personal thing.
So it's not -- you say,
well, Agapi did it this way
and Lisa did it this way,
and Mary did it this way
and there is Frank Sinatra sang
about it, "I did it my way."
So it's like, okay, we're
going to find your way.
And there are people
who are amazing mentors.
There are friends
that you go to.
There is meditation,
there is prayer.
I believe very, very
much that the spirit
in us is always there
to help us.
Rumi said, "Life is
rigged in your favor."
That the spirit, God, whatever
we call it, the universal love,
wants us to win, wants us not
to win in the way we should win
in the world, but in the
way of really getting to us.
And for me, Lisa, that
calling to find agapi,
to find who I was, was as much
as I wanted my next breath.
So I found my spiritual
teacher, who is in Los Angeles,
and I have my spiritual path.
I found the University of Santa
Monica, because when you say,
you know, the first thing
is admit how you're feeling
and not make it wrong,
don't judge it.
Like and in your daily life.
You know how work my daily
life to keep my energy up,
I tell myself how I am.
I used to walk around with a
knot in my stomach till I found
out that the knot in my
stomach was a little girl
that had not been loved,
that she felt like an orphan.
She felt like -- big Agapi was
out there doing the big things,
but nobody was talking to her,
how she was feeling lonely,
how she was feeling separate,
how she was feeling not enough.
And I worked that part, and it's
almost like your rising yourself
to your consciousness.
That is what consciousness is.
You're healing yourself.
You're humanist.
>> Lisa: Yes, and in
that healing, though,
it doesn't have to
be an award show.
It can be just the realization
of that healing, right?
>> Stassinopoulos: That's right.
It's a moment of really
becoming aware of your feelings,
your thoughts, your hurts, your
separations, and then that's
where the heart comes in,
because you bring your heart
into it and you take
yourself in, you forgive it,
you trace it, because it's in
your body, it's in the memories,
it's in the moment sometimes,
and where you feel separate
or hurt, and then you
evolve yourself to that.
You heal it, you raise
yourself and you say well,
there is a bigger part
in me that is not --
you don't just identify
with that,
and that misidentification
is where a lot of people feel
that -- I want to say
almost like misery.
You feel miserable.
You feel walking around not
feeling good about yourself.
>> Lisa: And almost
you feel at a loss,
like you're mourning
a death of something
that isn't working out.
>> Stassinopoulos:
That isn't working out,
and sometimes it's marriages
and relationships and work.
And then, as you let go --
because so much of our
lives is the letting go --
then there is space for
who you are to come in.
And that's when happened to
me, is that once I let go
of this attachment -- because
attachment, I've got to have
that or I'm not going
to be happy.
And that's -- it's like this,
you're holding on so tight
and so you say, okay,
I might never have that
and you know what, I'm okay.
>> Lisa: How to let go of your
dream and be okay with it.
>> Stassinopoulos: And be okay
with it, because your vision
of who you are is
bigger than your dream.
So you go for your vision,
and your vision is not just
about you, and that
is the greatest key,
because it's really finding,
what is it that you have
to offer in the world?
And when you get --
you said something
so beautiful before
the show started.
You said, okay, we took care
of ourselves, we got us here,
we got dressed, we got
made up, we did our hair,
and now let's forget about us.
So we focus on why we need to
give, what we have to offer.
My mother used to say, you
would say to her, "I love this,"
and she'd say, "Yeah, take it."
And the person would say,
"What can I give you back,"
and she'll say, "It's
not a trade,
darling, it's an offering."
>> Lisa: Aw, wow, how wonderful.
>> Stassinopoulos: Imagine if
we walked around and we said,
"You know, God, I
don't really feel good,
I don't feel great today.
I feel I don't have much to
give but I'll give what I have."
And this reaching
out unbinds you.
It's as simple as that.
Reach out.
>> Lisa: That's what
being bound is.
>> Stassinopoulos: Is like you
start to suffocate yourself
with judgments, with
comparisons,
I'm not getting what I want,
I'm not good enough,
and it's collective.
It's not just yours or mine,
it's in the human collective.
And you absorb it and
you have not only yours
but you have the human --
because people project that,
"Oh, well, you're
not important enough
but you are important enough."
And who is important, who is
not according to positions,
according to our materiality,
according to what we
have, what we achieve.
And if we can go beyond that and
go into the lack of separation
and reaching out, then
it kind of disappears
because it's an illusion.
>> Lisa: Then you stay open.
>> Stassinopoulos:
Then you stay open.
>> Lisa: That's what this next
clip is about, is staying open.
Take a look at this.
>> Stassinopoulos:
"How do you get there?
How do we get there
to find ourselves
and to say 'I've got me and now
I can share me with people.'
It's a journey, it's a
journey, but it's there.
It's there for the taking.
It's step by step by step.
So there are no 7 or 8 ways.
There are none.
There's one choice.
The choice is do you shut
down or do you stay open
when things don't happen the
way you want them to happen?
And when things don't happen
the way we want them to happen,
and we choose to say, 'I'm open,
I'm open, I'm not closing down,
I'm not going to feel resentful,
I'm not going to feel rejected,
I'm not going to feel unworthy.
I am going to stay open,'
other things happen.
And you know what happens?
You happen.
We happen to ourselves.
We connect with ourselves,
with our light, with our soul,
because our soul, the GPS
for our soul is coming in
and it wants to guide
us, and we're all part
of the collective soul.
That's what Plato said.
We're all part of that one
soul, part of one heart.
There is no separation.
We are connected like
islands in the deep.
We're separate but this
is illusion separation.
Right now come present
in your heart
and imagine right now a golden
vein going into one person
and another person, surrounding
this whole beautiful auditorium,
we are one heart --
and that's the truth
that I stand before you as a
living testament to the fact
that all that matters is
not what happens out there,
but how you turn inside to
connect with you and love all
of you unconditionally."
>> Lisa: All right, so you have
these great tips in the book
on essential tips
to live your life,
and I'd love to hear
some of them.
>> Stassinopoulos: One of
the tips I love is don't try
to fix yourself or your life,
because fixing it
starts to manipulate it.
And it's like, let things be
as they are and then start
to find your alignment
with your inner spirit.
And that alignment is -- and how
I found my confidence and that's
in the chapter of finding your
voice, how I started to write --
which was terrifying for
me, how I started to write
and not thinking I
had anything to say.
And a friend came over
and she had me write this
on the bulletin board that
I had in my living room.
And she said, "You have
everything you need
to write this book but you
lack one thing, confidence.
And how do you find
confidence is knowing
that you're not alone."
And I took a big piece of paper,
and I wrote "God is my partner."
And I have ancient
wisdom that's in me,
and the spirit works with me.
The creative force is within
us, and as I opened up
and trust that, and kind
of acting as if, as if,
even if you don't believe it,
the channels start to open.
So bonding, making sure that
you know you're not alone even
if you feel alone.
>> Lisa: Well, what
happens as you said,
try not to fix your life,
but what if there are things
that need fixing, where you're
in an abusive relationship
or having financial
debt problems,
things that need fixing?
>> Stassinopoulos:
It's more than fixing.
It's more the awareness
that it's putting yourself
in the corrected channel.
Because when you start to
fix it, it's like you start
to judge it, and if you judge
it, then you're stuck in it.
You're like imprisoned by it.
>> Lisa: So you go
into the channel of--
>> Stassinopoulos: --
of self-correcting.
It's like you go into
the different track.
Like we are in a track
that's leaking, let's say,
so then you start to go into
another track that is straight.
>> Lisa: Fixing the debt
-- or not fixing but--
>> Stassinopoulos:
Self-correcting.
>> Lisa: Correcting the debt,
correcting the relationship,
but you go into that channel
rather than into the broken--
>> Stassinopoulos: Yes,
because then you can share,
there's something wrong
with me; I need to fix that.
And that's a very erroneous
approach, because the being
that is whole, it's almost
like stepping into a more
of a holistic place inside of
you that starts to give you keys
and awarenesses and
strength and confidence.
>> Lisa: That makes sense.
I can actually see
how that would be
so much more empowering.
>> Stassinopoulos: It's
a different perception.
>> Lisa: And plus, you
get into that place
where it's about consciousness.
>> Stassinopoulos:
Exactly, exactly, exactly.
So the five questions, because
I feel so passionate about this
when people say,
what is my calling,
how do I find my purpose.
And I say, ask yourself daily
these questions: What am I here
to learn, what am I here
to teach, what am I here
to overcome, what am
I here to complete,
and what am I here to share?
>> Lisa: Wow.
Ask yourself those
questions every day.
>> Stassinopoulos: Well, while
you're driving on the freeway
and you're going, you're
upset or you're late
or you are impatient with a
colleague or with your boss
or with your children
or with your husband,
or something is not moving in
your life and you're impatient.
We've all had that and you say,
"this is not moving
fast enough."
Or you're afraid
you're going to fail.
And you say, something like
telling yourself, "Sweetheart,"
I mean, why not be
sweet to ourselves?
Talk sweetly to --
I say, "Sweetheart,
what am I here to learn."
And you go, "I'm here to
learn patience right now.
I'm here to learn
the highest vision.
I'm here to listen.
What am I here to teach?"
It could be that sometimes
you're just teaching someone
that they are safe
just the way they are.
We can connect in that
amazing transparent place
with each other.
That is so powerful,
because we are transparent.
We go beyond our skin.
>> Lisa: Yes.
>> Stassinopoulos: And here --
although our boundaries
are like that,
but inside of us we understand.
We see, what am I
here to overcome?
We're always overcoming
something, Lisa, all of us.
No one is exempt.
We're overcoming something.
It could be a physical,
emotional, mental thing.
And what am I here to complete?
And you say, you know, for me,
as you know, it took me years
to understand, and I wrote about
this in the book, a sabbatical
for men, that I didn't need to
have the great men in my life
who loved me and adored
me or the great companion
or the great love,
or to feel whole.
That was a big thing.
I told my spiritual
teacher one day
on my birthday, "I'm
still single."
And he said, "You're
singular, not single, singular.
It means you're whole
in yourself."
>> Lisa: You're whole
in yourself.
>> Stassinopoulos: So you're
not always looking, oh,
if only I had this man to
make me feel fantastic.
>> Lisa: No, it's like the
Greek goddesses we're going
to talk about.
>> Stassinopoulos: Yes.
>> Lisa: Some of those
archetypes really define that--
>> Stassinopoulos: Totally.
>> Lisa: Yes, which I love --
you have such a great
perspective on all of that.
I can't wait.
So we're going to take a look
really quickly at a video
that you did with Marlo Thomas.
>> Stassinopoulos: Yes.
>> Lisa: And more tips
for living your life.
Take a look at Agapi
Stassinopoulos.
[ Background noise ]
>> Marlo Thomas: This is
from Michelle Madison.
What are a few tips that almost
everyone can apply to their life
so they can find more happiness?
>> Stassinopoulos: All right.
Hi, Michelle.
I have five great tips.
Are you ready?
The first one is something
that I have learned
from my own life a lot, which
is ask for what you want.
Ask people.
When you want something, tell
people what it is you want.
And there's a difference
between demanding or asking.
When you ask and they say no,
they can't help,
ask the next one.
I usually have this
little technique, say,
ask at least 12 people
for what you want
and start to see what happens.
Also, the asking gives you
a message that you deserve
to receive and you
deserve to be supported.
The other one is to
find your spark in life.
If you have a job or if you
have something that you're doing
that you are not as
happy, find still something
that really activates
you, that enlivens you,
that makes you feel happy,
and start doing more of that.
The other thing is I
always say to people,
when you want something,
hold the thought
of what it is you want.
Think more of the thoughts of
what it is you want to achieve
or want to feel like, so more
of what creates the thing
you want is the thoughts
and consistency.
So for example, if you want
a promotion, hold the thought
of getting a promotion.
If you say to yourself,
"I'll never get a
promotion," then you won't.
>> Lisa: Right.
>> Stassinopoulos:
And then it's hard
to turn your disappointments
into opportunities,
things that don't work out.
And I would say that in my life
the things that did not work
out were as substantial and
effective and enlightening
in a way, as the things
that did work out.
The fifth tip that I trust
and always works in my life is
that if I want to feel empowered
or feel more good about myself
in the day or in my life,
is help someone else
get what they want.
>> Lisa: So you have written
a book, "The Conversations
with Goddesses,"
and two books on --
>> Stassinopoulos: And "Gods
and Goddesses in Love," yes.
Well, Lisa, at some point the
goddesses took over my life
and they said, "You're
under contract with us.
I don't even know
how it happened,
but I wrote this One Woman show
which I performed everywhere,
at the Getty Museum,
at colleges.
>> Lisa: What was it?
>> Stassinopoulos: It was the
seven goddesses, their stories,
the myth, as we know, their
archetype, and then a monologue
for each one of them
so I could act.
Because as you said, once a
performer, always a performer,
so I did Jocasta for Demeter
and Joan of Arc for Athena
and Lina Szczepanowska from
the Bernard Show and Arethea
from Bernard Show and on and on,
all these brilliant monologues.
And I said, "what if
this goddess could speak,
this is what she would say."
And come alive, and then
I would teach people how
to become this archetype, how
to embody it, how to evoke it,
how to bring it more conscious
in their body, in their mind.
>> Lisa: Yes, this is
extremely educational.
I love this.
>> Stassinopoulos:
Very educational,
and I love this book
which is now out of print
"Conversation with
the Goddesses."
it's my first baby.
And what -- shall
we talk about this?
>> Lisa: Yes.
I think what I want to do
is I want to show a clip
of you doing this incredible
monologue, and you're talking
about the Greek goddess Artemis?
>> Stassinopoulos:
Artemis, Diana, exactly,
the goddess of the hunt,
the goddess of independence
of the moon, but the
goddess of boundaries.
>> Lisa: Boundaries.
We could talk hours and hours
and hours on boundaries.
>> Stassinopoulos:
Boundaries, yes.
If people want to learn how
to set boundaries and say,
"this is my space, this is where
I begin and end and this is
where you begin and end
and we don't merge."
>> Lisa: That's such an issue.
>> Stassinopoulos:
Such an issue.
>> Lisa: It's an
issue with saying no,
it's an issue with
saying all that.
Take a look at the performance
of Agapi doing Artemis,
and then we'll get back to
some of the conversations
about Athena and all of the
other wonderful goddesses.
Take a look at this.
>> Stassinopoulos: Artemis
is not about relationships.
She's about one fundamental
relationship,
the relationship with herself.
Artemis, the goddess of the
hunt, the goddess of the moon,
she's driven by physical energy,
not erotic like an Aphrodite,
not the mind, like Athena,
not the bond of marriage
but the physicality of life,
her love affair with nature.
She is bold, she is strong, she
is skillful, she has her bow
and arrow which she
directs, she's single-minded.
She's defined by no
bond, no relationship
and her whole relationship is
because she feels
complete with herself.
So women, if you ever feel
that you can be complete
within yourself without
a man, you're right on.
You're right on Artemis.
You're right on her archetype.
>> Lisa: So talk
to us about Athena.
>> Stassinopoulos: Well,
Athena is the goddess of wisdom
and compassion and strategist.
She's brilliant.
She lives in her head and her
intelligence and in her vision.
So for women who want
to access more --
you said when people
have problems
or they have difficulty,
they also have wisdom,
they also can access
that part of them
or they can educate
themselves about that part.
And wisdom is an amazing
key to having your life.
>> Lisa: Yeah, and sometimes
we don't hit that wisdom
until we get into the
second half of our life.
>> Stassinopoulos: Yes.
Or children have
a lot of wisdom.
>> Lisa: They do.
>> Stassinopoulos: But you know,
we shut them off sometimes.
>> Lisa: We tell
them to be quiet,
their opinion doesn't matter.
>> Stassinopoulos: Yeah, and
that's detrimental for a child,
because a lot of children are
just born with this wisdom.
>> Lisa: So can you call on
these gods and goddesses.
>> Stassinopoulos: You know
one of the greatest gifts,
which I want to share
with our viewers,
is start to write things down.
When I did Workshop
of the Goddesses,
I said pick an archetype and
we'll do the whole process
that you want to work with,
and then converse
with that archetype.
It's called Conversations
with the Goddesses.
>> Lisa: Oh, and so if you
were to converse with Athena?
>> Stassinopoulos: Or with
Athena, you would say,
help me find a solution
in this problem,
and then the wisdom comes
in because the wisdom
is embedded in us.
The intelligence
It's in our soul,
it's in our DNA.
We just have to unearth it.
We have to get out of
our own way to start --
see, I didn't know what I knew
till I got out of my own way
and let go of my agendas, the
things that I wanted to badly,
and then I showed up and I
said, "Wow, that's way better
than having an acting career."
>> Lisa: Ah, wow.
>> Stassinopoulos: I showed up.
And when you show up, a lot of
times, and if you read any kind
of spiritual journeys
of a lot of people,
they show up when they let go
of what they think
they should become.
>> Lisa: This is so
important for men as well,
because when men feel
that their identity is
so wrapped into their career--
>> Stassinopoulos: Yes, yes,
and they suffer so much.
>> Lisa: Then if the career
ends, then the identity ends,
and it becomes a
lost ground there.
What can you suggest?
>> Stassinopoulos: You
want me to help men now?
>> Lisa: Helping
everyone today, yes.
>> Stassinopoulos: Okay,
let's help the men a
little bit, they need help.
So they can love us more
and they can worship us.
>> Lisa: You are a goddess.
>> Stassinopoulos: Raising
children and raising men.
I think the men conditioning
is very binding
in our society, very binding.
The paternal patriarchy
archetype is very binding
to the men and is binding
to the woman, and I suffered
that with my father
and so did my mother
because he was a very
bound male, but more
and more amazing
men are ushering
in our world, as you know.
You've had many of those
amazing men on your shows
who speak wisdom and truth,
and these are the role models.
These are the new role models.
And my consciousness
and my heart is
to really love these men
and really not surrender
to what they think is right,
to really allow them
their expression but also
to be very strong in ourselves,
to show them maybe a way,
that there is another
way to do life.
There is another way to think,
there is another way to be,
and help them open their hearts.
>> Lisa: Right, what
you're talking
about of letting go your
agenda and showing up.
And men have incredible
talents and they've gained
such experiences, just as
women have from our lives,
our jobs, whatever it is.
In many positions people have
been laid off in this situation
or jobs have completely
disappeared.
>> Stassinopoulos: Absolutely.
>> Lisa: Mergers have happened
and people have lost
their careers.
>> Stassinopoulos:
And yet so many
of these men also start amazing
new projects, and you look
at the new generation and
these people are living
in the entrepreneurial spirit,
which is creating new
opportunities for themselves
and others, and we
see that everywhere.
So the new generation
is almost smarter.
And they looked around and
said, I don't want that.
I don't want to be stuck
in a job like that.
They go for the creativity.
>> Lisa: Well, they're
having to adapt, because many
of those job positions
that they studied
for in college are
no longer there.
So even the whole
careers themselves.
So it's about letting go
of the agenda, opening up,
showing up -- let's get
back to the Green goddesses.
>> Stassinopoulos: And
not being afraid to fail.
Because a lot of those start-ups
and businesses, like fail
and fail, and start again.
>> Lisa: And still
learn something.
>> Stassinopoulos: Yes.
>> Lisa: So some of the -- you
said the modern-day counterparts
of Athena would include
Gloria Steinem.
>> Stassinopoulos:
Gloria Steinem for sure,
and Hillary Clinton and
Madeline Wright then
and it's Susan Sontag,
and Joan of Arc
of course is an archetype.
>> Lisa: So these are
goddesses of wisdom?
>> Stassinopoulos: Yes.
>> Lisa: And the arts.
>> Stassinopoulos: And the arts
and in each area they thrive,
so that it's different areas,
this archetype can
really thrive.
Her sister -- shall we
talk about her sister?
Artemis?
>> Lisa: Yeah.
>> Stassinopoulos:
Who we just saw --
she really embodies the
spirit of fearlessness.
She's the goddess of the
hunt and the boundaries
that we talked about, and it's
really where I think to open
up your heart, you need
boundaries, and you need to set
like your river banks.
So that a lot of times
we share our heart
but we share our
emotional heart,
or we wear our heart
on our sleeve.
That's not the heart
that is the mighty heart.
The mighty heart is
the spiritual heart
that really lives
in our spiritual body,
and that is in us.
And as we learn to be
more in that, it's strong,
it's mighty, it's clear.
So when we think of somebody
like Artemis, the architect
of Artemis, who was actually
vengeful in her own way.
She was an archetype that really
brought not only her own space,
but she was revengeful
to the people who --
>> Lisa: -- intruded
on her space.
>> Stassinopoulos: --
intruded on her space.
>> Lisa: Right, so she was
the queen of boundaries.
>> Stassinopoulos: Exactly.
So if you want to focus--
>> Lisa: So if you want to
learn -- and what and focus.
>> Stassinopoulos:
Focus, tremendous focus.
>> Lisa: Really, interesting.
>> Stassinopoulos: It said the
bow and arrow is her symbol.
>> Lisa: If you were
to say Arianna was one
and you were the other,
since they're sisters,
which one would you take?
>> Stassinopoulos: Yes, well,
Arianna is very much the Athena.
She creates vision, she
creates with strategy.
Her intellect, the
way she writes books,
and obviously she has the
demeanor because she is a mother
and she nurtures her
children, her projects.
And I'm much more of the
Persephone archetype.
>> Lisa: Oh, that's what
we're going to get into next.
>> Stassinopoulos: Yes,
we're going to get into.
And Persephone is a
very important archetype
for the young girls as well.
It's the spirit of youth,
it's the spirit of creativity
and the spirit of
transformation.
And then as she goes
into the underworld--
>> Lisa: Oh, and what's the
underworld part of that?
>> Stassinopoulos:
The underworld is
when she marries Hades and
he abducts her and rapes her
and takes her into
the underworld.
But the myth, why the myth is so
powerful is because all of us,
at some point in our lives, have
something that happens in us
where it's almost like
the chasm, the void,
the separation from
the innocence.
For me, it's my parent's
separation, it's a betrayal
from a friend, it's a loss.
>> Lisa: It happens to everyone.
>> Stassinopoulos: It's a loss.
And in that loss, you
go through your journey,
you're sort of like the
darkness, the isolation,
the times where you
feel separate,
you feel alone, you feel bereft.
>> Lisa: Yes, the journey
everyone goes through.
>> Stassinopoulos: And then
out of that, the knowledge
and the wisdom and the
transformation comes.
And then she rises and she goes
up into the Earth
again, and then it's--
>> Lisa: This happens again and
again and again in your life.
It's when you stop
sucking your thumb
to when you become a woman.
>> Stassinopoulos: Love
virginity, your menopause,
and it's actually interesting,
because Demeter, her mother
and Persephone are
called the goddesses
of seasons, the change.
>> Lisa: The change.
>> Stassinopoulos: The change.
>> Lisa: And that's Persephone,
and you said the modern-day
Persephones would be --
these are people that
are goddesses of death
and rebirth and transformation.
>> Stassinopoulos: Yes, and
I tell you my favorite one.
It's Alice in Wonderland.
>> Lisa: Alice in Wonderland.
>> Stassinopoulos: And I
say Alice in Wonderland
because it's a magical figure of
transformation, and she changes.
She becomes little and she
goes into this world of magic.
>> Lisa: Yes, that's
absolutely true,
and also you mentioned Madonna
and Cher and Angelina Jolie,
all these people who made
these transformations.
>> Stassinopoulos: You know,
Angelina Jolie's very much
and Aphrodite, though.
>> Lisa: Oh, I would
agree, yeah.
>> Stassinopoulos: She's very
much this ideal of beauty
and love and eros and
sensuality and relationships.
She's a lover.
You see that, even
with her children.
>> Lisa: Motherhood, yes, yes.
>> Stassinopoulos: It's a very
different approach of a mother.
It's not a Demeter mother.
It's more the Aphrodite mother,
where the children are
also an extension of you,
and eros, she's about eros.
And eros is essential
part of our lives.
>> Lisa: Eros is--
>> Stassinopoulos: Eros
is the child of Aphrodite
and is the erotic love.
It's the sensual love.
And in that part, I always
say, you don't have to be
in a relationship
to bring it alive.
You can actually bring it
alive in your everyday life.
It's everything to do
with the senses, beauty.
Aphrodites, all about beauty.
>> Lisa: And touch.
>> Stassinopoulos: And touch and
smells and perfumes and food.
The aphrodisiac of life,
enriches our lives.
I always said to women, if you
want to feel like an Aphrodite,
smile from inside out.
>> Lisa: That gives
you that essence.
>> Stassinopoulos: That
essence, that confidence
that you're beautiful.
I wrote this poem about her.
She actually wrote it
through me, that said,
all women are born beautiful.
Knowing that, however,
is their choice.
All women are born
deserving love.
Choosing that is up to them.
And she said -- she goes on
and on, and then she says,
I'm in bliss, I live in bliss,
can you see my secret smile?
Why do I smile?
Whom do I belong to?
I belong to me.
She's into herself, you know
this phrase, she's not into you.
Well, Aphrodites,
says, I'm into me.
I'm into me.
>> Lisa: Yes, but
it's a wonderful --
I mean, I see the
Greek goddesses
as different personality phases
that you go through in life.
You can be an Aphrodite,
you can be an Athena.
I don't know if that's the
way you look at it, though.
If you're always embodying
just one archetype or--
>> Stassinopoulos:
No, we change.
>> Lisa: You can change, okay.
>> Stassinopoulos: It's the same
thing about the five questions,
what am I here to learn today?
What am I here to teach today?
And they come in to
teach us, the archetypes.
They are born out of us.
>> Lisa: Ah, yes.
>> Stassinopoulos: Out of
the creative imagination.
They're ours.
We have them.
>> Lisa: They're such a
powerful mythology, too.
They've lasted for centuries
and centuries to still teach.
So Demeter, we have
a picture of Demeter.
>> Stassinopoulos: Demeter, yes.
>> Lisa: We talked a
little bit about --
>> Stassinopoulos:
The mother of --
and that's the nurturing
quality, and that's the part
of ourselves that
really is the mother.
And whether you have
children or not,
I would say like Oprah Winfrey,
she does not have children,
but she's the mother.
She's the mother
archetype and Maya Angelou,
and you have the mother in
you, I have the mother in me,
and we love our children but
we love people in the world.
>> Lisa: Many.
>> Stassinopoulos: And
we have to nurture.
>> Lisa: Yes.
>> Stassinopoulos: Because
if we don't nurture,
it's almost like
some part of us dies.
>> Lisa: The opposite I find is
that I wind up nurturing so much
that I do not take
care of myself.
>> Stassinopoulos: Yes.
>> Lisa: And so I'm
overnurturing.
>> Stassinopoulos: Well,
that's also it's interesting,
because a lot of women who
are the Demeter have a problem
with being caretakers
of everyone.
And my mother did that.
She started to lose her
boundaries because she started
to take care of,
nurturing all the time
and really neglected herself.
>> Lisa: So I would
need to call in a little
of the Armetis' energy.
>> Stassinopoulos: Or return
to self that nurturing,
return the love to yourself,
return the kindness to yourself.
>> Lisa: And take care of me.
>> Stassinopoulos:
Yes, take care of me.
>> Lisa: The other
goddess that you talk
about in the book is the goddess
of heart and home, Hestia.
>> Stassinopoulos:
Hestia's the sacred.
>> Lisa: The sacred.
>> Stassinopoulos: And that's
the part of us that loves
to meditate and to
pray and to serve,
and that's the part
that's really not about us.
She's not about her.
She's about --
>> Lisa: Hearth and home.
>> Stassinopoulos: And sacred,
the sacred part of life.
>> Lisa: And the modern-day
-- is Mother Teresa.
>> Stassinopoulos: Yes,
yes, service, and the home.
Hestia women are always about
taking care of their home,
making it a sanctuary.
And they're homemakers.
I remember going out
shopping with a friend of mine
who is a Hestia,
and I wanted to go
to the clothing store,
to the boutique.
And she saw furniture saw
and said, oh, let's go there.
She was, what can I buy for my
home to make it more beautiful?
>> Lisa: Yeah.
>> Stassinopoulos: And she
was always wearing kind
of a black dress or something.
She wasn't into her looks or
anteing, she was into her home.
>> Lisa: That's interesting,
that's really interesting.
And then the last one we're
going to talk about is Hera.
>> Stassinopoulos:
Hera is marriage
and relationships
and partnerships.
And again, this is
not just for marriage,
but this is about all
sorts of relationships.
How do you nurture
your relationships.
How do you find balance
in relationships.
How do you communicate?
>> Lisa: If you are having a
hard time in your relationships,
can you call upon that energy
or study the energy of Hera more
in order to get bonding
back in a relationship?
>> Stassinopoulos: I
don't know if that's true.
I think it's more like
identifying if you have
that archetype in you,
then marriage is
very, very important.
Like a woman who's more of
a Hera, she will date a man
with the thought, is this
the man I'm going to marry?
Aphrodite would be more
is this the man I'm going
to have a good time
with, a love affair?
So it's marriage
versus love affairs.
Now, if you can get
both, it's great.
>> Lisa: Different
times, it's perfect, yeah.
>> Stassinopoulos:
Different times, you know.
But it's more awareness of
what hat are we wearing,
what archetype we come under.
>> Lisa: So combining all
of the goddess information
and the unbinding your heart,
what is the final
overall message
that you want to tell people?
>> Stassinopoulos: You
know, there is a quote
that I really love that
I want to share with you,
which is my heart is at
peace, knowing that that
that is mine will never miss me.
And that that misses me was
never meant for me at all.
And I think if we can come
into the presence of our heart
and come present to know
that there is a real place
where the presence of our heart
is real, which is the sharing
of who we are, the authenticity,
the purity of who we are,
and that nothing we
misses that's meant for us,
then we don't feel the sense of
lack and we can literally feel
at home with ourselves.
>> Lisa: That's beautiful, yes.
>> Stassinopoulos: Coming home
to ourselves is what I
really think we all want.
>> Lisa: Yes, we do.
>> Stassinopoulos: May I read
this little poem for you?
It's called "The
Palace of My Heart."
You keep knocking at my door,
but I don't live here anymore.
My old house is demolished.
I left. I left where I live,
and you cannot find me.
Don't look for me.
I have no visitors of your kind.
My house is lit with love.
If you come close,
it will engulf you
and you will disappear
and you won't like that.
In my house there
is no room for you.
The rooms are filled with joy,
and you will not like that.
Don't keep knocking at my door.
I have moved.
You find me there anymore.
I have moved into the
palace of my heart.
>> Lisa: That is beautiful.
It's a wonderful way to end.
Thank you so much for
your warmth and your love
and your wisdom and
your mother's wisdom.
>> Stassinopoulos: Thank you.
>> Lisa: Thank you for
sharing all of it with us.
>> Stassinopoulos: Thank you
for sharing it and allowing me
to come bring my heart
into your beautiful show
and your beautiful smile.
>> Lisa: And you
are an inspiration.
Thank you so much
for being here.
>> Stassinopoulos: Thank you.
I look forward to conversing
more with all the viewers.
>> Lisa: Yes, absolutely.
If you'd like to watch
a replay of my interview
with Agapi Stassinopoulos, or
share it with your friends,
you can go to gaiamtv.com
and until then I invite
you to stay inspired.
[ Music ]